Nathan: What did the baseball glove say to the ball?
Kyle: I’m stumped.
Nathan: “Catch ya later!”

Submitted by Nathan R., Santa Fe, N.M.

Michael: Why are some umpires fat?
Andrew: Tell me
Michael: They always clean their plate!

Submitted by Noah B., Lincoln, Neb.

Bob didn’t believe that Fred’s dog could talk. So Fred asked his dog, “What’s on top of a house?”

“Roof,” the dog barked.

Bob wasn’t convinced. So Fred asked the dog how sandpaper feels.

“Rough.”

He still wasn’t convinced.

“O.K., who was the greatest baseball player of all time?” Fred asked the dog.

“Ruth.”

With that, Bob walked away, shaking his head in disbelief. The dog turned to Fred and asked: Was it Hank Aaron?”

Submitted by Emily S., Oswego, Ill.

Chris: Which baseball player holds water?
John: I don’t know. Which one?
Chris: The pitcher.

Submitted by Christopher V., River Ridge, La.

A rookie pitcher was struggling at the mound, so the catcher walked out to have a talk with him. “I’ve figured out your problem,” he told the pitcher. “You always lose control at the same point in every game.” “When is that?” “Right after the national anthem.”

Submitted by William E., Morganton, N.C.

Matthew: How do baseball players keep in touch?
Connor: I don’t know. How?
Matthew: They touch base every once in a while.

Submitted by Matthew R., Fullerton, Calif.

Eric: What has 18 legs and catches flies?
Victor: I have no idea.
Eric: A baseball team!

Submitted by Kaden B., Columbus, Ind.

Mike: Why was Cinderella so bad at baseball?
Matt: Why?
Mike: She had a pumpkin for a coach.

Submitted by Micheal R., Brewton, Ala.

Jon: What’s the difference between a high-hit baseball and a maggot’s father?
Tom: What?
Jon: One’s a pop fly. The other’s a fly pop.

Submitted by Jon W., Stroudsburg, Pa.

A book never written: “How to Be a Better Baseball Player” by Ben Schwarmer.

Submitted by Steven C., Apple Valley, Minn.

Mark: What are the rules in zebra baseball?
Mike: What?
Mark: Three stripes and you’re out.

Tanner: Why was Cinderella kicked off the baseball team?
Nancy: Why?
Tanner: She ran away from the ball.

Tanner: What do baseball players use to bake a cake?
Pedro: I don’t know. What?
Tanner: Oven MITTS, BUNT pans and BATTER.

A book never written: “The Quickest Baseball Game” by Earl E. Wynn.

Warped Wiseman wonders: “Why do we sing ‘Take Me Out to the Ballgame’ when we’re already there?”

Riddler: A man leaves home, makes a left turn, makes another left, then another left turn and goes home again. When he gets home there are two men wearing masks waiting for him. Who are they?
Batman: I haven’t a clue.
Riddler: The catcher and the umpire.

Noe: Why is Yankee Stadium the coolest place to be?
Joe: Why?
Noe: Because it’s full of fans.

Warped Wiseman wonders: “Why is it called the World Series if only North American teams can play?”

A book never written: “Pittsburgh Pirates, World Series Champions!” by Ben Waiten.

Manager: Our new infielder cost $10 million. I call him our “Wonder Player.”
Fan: Why’s that?
Manager: Every time he plays, I wonder why I bothered to get him.
